# AppMenu Module Documentation

  The AppMenu module displays an application launching menu. This menu displays application shortcuts loaded from standard desktop entry files, and from a JSON configuration file. The user can use this menu to launch applications, or to focus the window of an application that was already launched through this menu.
 
 The menu is constructed from folders generated from the appMenu.json configuration file. Each folder may contain any number of application shortcuts and child folders. Folders may also have a list of application categories. All desktop entries that share application categories with a folder will be added to that folder as additional menu items.

  The menu structure is fully configurable, both through the appMenu.json configuration file, and directly through the menu interface. The user may right click or use a keyboard shortcut to create popup context menus, which can change the order of menu items, add new items, delete menu items, or edit any of the properties of existing menu items. The most significant limitation is that menu items generated by desktop entries cannot be reordered. These will always be listed alphabetically within their folders, after any menu items defined in the JSON file.

 The AppMenu provides support for multiple display formats. The display format defines the layout of the menu, and controls how user input events are applied to the menu. The selected format may be dynamically changed. Through the AppMenu::ConfigFile interface, other objects may change the menu format, and adjust various display properties for each menu format. AppMenu provides the AppMenu::SettingsComponents class to generate UI components that allow the user to directly change AppMenu display settings within the application.

## Public Interface

#### [AppMenu](../../Source/AppMenu/AppMenu.h)
  Creates the AppMenu, returning it as a generic juce::Component pointer.

#### [AppMenu::ConfigFile](../../Source/AppMenu/AppMenu_ConfigFile.h)
  Gets and sets the menu format and menu display properties.

#### [AppMenu::SettingsComponents](../../Source/AppMenu/AppMenu_SettingsComponents.h)
  Provides UI components that allow the user to view and change menu format
  options.

## Implementation

### Menu Behavior

#### [AppMenu::Initializer](../../Source/AppMenu/Control/AppMenu_Initializer.h)
   Creates and initializes the main menu component.

#### [AppMenu::Controller](../../Source/AppMenu/Control/AppMenu_Controller.h)
   Implements core menu functionality. This includes opening and closing folders, creating menu editors, handling popup context menus, and launching application shortcuts.

#### [AppMenu::InputHandler](../../Source/AppMenu/Control/AppMenu_InputHandler.h)
   Captures key, mouse, and window focus input events, and defines how they are applied to the menu.

### UI Components

#### [AppMenu::MainComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/AppMenu_MainComponent.h)
   The main UI component used to hold all menu content.

#### [AppMenu::MenuComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/AppMenu_MenuComponent.h)
   Creates and displays the menu's folder components.

#### [AppMenu::FolderComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/AppMenu_FolderComponent.h)
   Creates and displays menu buttons for all menu items in a single menu folder.

#### [AppMenu::MenuButton](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/AppMenu_MenuButton.h)
   A button used to show and activate a single item in the menu.

### Editors

#### [AppMenu::PopupEditor](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/Editors/AppMenu_PopupEditor.h)
   An abstract basis for all menu item editor components.

#### [AppMenu::CategoryEditor](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/Editors/AppMenu_CategoryEditor.h)
   A UI component used to edit a list of application categories.

#### [AppMenu::ExistingItemEditor](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/Editors/AppMenu_ExistingItemEditor.h)
   Updates existing menu items.

#### [AppMenu::NewDesktopAppEditor](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/Editors/AppMenu_NewDesktopAppEditor.h)
   Creates new .desktop application shortcut files for the current user.

#### [AppMenu::NewConfigItemEditor](../../Source/AppMenu/Components/Editors/AppMenu_NewConfigItemEditor.h)
   Adds new application shortcuts or folders to the active menu folder.

### Menu Data

#### [AppMenu::ConfigJSON](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_ConfigJSON.h)
   Reads and writes menu format settings from a configurable JSON file.

#### [AppMenu::ConfigKeys](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_ConfigKeys.h)
   Defines the JSON keys used within the ConfigJSON object's configuration file.

#### [AppMenu::ItemData](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/AppMenu_ItemData.h)
   A reference-counted internal data object that holds all menu data for a single item in the menu.

#### [AppMenu::MenuItem](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/AppMenu_MenuItem.h)
   A nullable interface used to share and interact with any type of ItemData object. 

#### [AppMenu::MenuJSON](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_MenuJSON.h)
   Reads from and writes to the main menu structure within a configurable JSON file.

#### [AppMenu::MenuFile](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_MenuFile.h)
   Safely reads from and writes to the menu's shared AppMenu::MenuJSON object.

#### [AppMenu::MenuKeys](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_MenuKeys.h)
   Defines the JSON keys used within the menu JSON file.

#### [AppMenu::ConfigData](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/JSON/AppMenu_ConfigData.h)
   An AppMenu::ItemData subclass that gets its data from the MenuJSON object's configuration file.

#### [AppMenu::EntryLoader](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/DesktopEntry/AppMenu_EntryLoader.h)
   Connects with the DesktopEntry module to load DesktopEntry objects for .desktop application shortcut files.

#### [AppMenu::EntryActions](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/DesktopEntry/AppMenu_EntryActions.h)
   Provides convenience functions for working with groups of DesktopEntry objects.

#### [AppMenu::EntryData](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/DesktopEntry/AppMenu_EntryData.h)
   An AppMenu::ItemData subclass that gets its data from a .desktop application shortcut file, accessed through a DesktopEntry object.

#### [AppMenu::EntryUpdater](../../Source/AppMenu/Data/DesktopEntry/AppMenu_EntryUpdater.h)
   Listens for updates to loaded .desktop files and applies them to the application menu.

### Menu Formats

#### [AppMenu::Format](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/AppMenu_Format.h)
   Defines all available menu formats.

### Scrolling Menu Format
   Displays the application menu as scrolling vertical lists of applications.

#### [AppMenu::Scrolling::Initializer](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Scrolling/AppMenu_Scrolling_Initializer.h)
   Creates the AppMenu using the scrolling menu format.

#### [AppMenu::Scrolling::InputHandler](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Scrolling/AppMenu_Scrolling_InputHandler.h)
   Defines how user input events are applied to the scrolling menu.

#### [AppMenu::Scrolling::MenuComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Scrolling/AppMenu_Scrolling_MenuComponent.h)
   Defines how the scrolling menu format displays and arranges folder components.

#### [AppMenu::Scrolling::FolderComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Scrolling/AppMenu_Scrolling_FolderComponent.h)
   Defines how the scrolling menu format arranges menu items within each folder.

#### [AppMenu::Scrolling::MenuButton](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Scrolling/AppMenu_Scrolling_MenuButton.h)
   Defines how the scrolling menu format displays individual menu items.

### Paged Menu Format
   Displays the application menu as a grid of menu items divided into different pages.

#### [AppMenu::Paged::Initializer](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Paged/AppMenu_Paged_Initializer.h)
   Creates the AppMenu using the paged menu format.

#### [AppMenu::Paged::InputHandler](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Paged/AppMenu_Paged_InputHandler.h)
   Defines how user input events are applied to the paged menu.

#### [AppMenu::Paged::MenuComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Paged/AppMenu_Paged_MenuComponent.h)
   Defines how the paged menu format displays and arranges folder components.

#### [AppMenu::Paged::FolderComponent](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Paged/AppMenu_Paged_FolderComponent.h)
   Defines how the scrolling menu format arranges menu items within each folder.

#### [AppMenu::Paged::MenuButton](../../Source/AppMenu/Formats/Paged/AppMenu_Paged_MenuButton.h)
   Defines how the scrolling menu format displays individual menu items.
